Mage remains in its middle-of-the-road spot in the meta, sitting just behind Warlock in popularity. The name of the game for the class has been to do everything it can to beat Priests and Jade Druid.

Secret Mage has seen a few recent developments, with builds deviating from standard lists in order to improve the most popular matchups. Bunnyhoppor has been experimenting in the top 100 by cutting Apprentices, a weak early game minion, in order to run both Hydras and Scalebanes in addition to the Bonemares which were already present in these lists. With so many powerful mid-game minions, the pressure applied can be crippling to Jade Druid and Razakus Priest. Gaboumme took a slower approach to hit top 30 legend by running Burgly Bullies, Antonidas, Cairne and Medivh to provide the list with an incredibly powerful late game that’s difficult to deal with.  Araiance took the archetype in a different direction on his way to #12 legend, by targeting the Rogue matchup instead with Golakka Crawlers and Tar Creepers.

Control Mage has been less successful, but is trying to come up with different way to match up better against Priest and Jade Druid. Gaara has been hovering around the top legend ranks with a Control Mage build that runs a lot of single target removal and Skulking Geist in order to try and exhaust the Jade Druid’s resources. It also runs Medivh, Alex and multiple direct-damage spells to try and kill Priests before they reach their win condition.

Control Mages have also begun to incorporate the Mage quest in their attempt to counter Priests. Sjoesie hit top 100 legend with a build that runs the finishing package of Alex and Arcane Giants. Akeze also hit top 100 legend cutting the Skulking Geist for a Giant Wasp, which can help getting past a taunt that stands in the way of your Arcane Giants. This build can throw the quest against aggressive decks in the mulligan phase while only keeping it against control, since it can rely on Frost Lich Jaina as its primary game ending win condition against these decks (and Arcane Giants are strong cards by themselves).