Tempo Rogue remains the most popular and strongest deck in the game. It continues to go through experimentation as the search for the best list continues. The latest hot trend in Tempo Rogue builds is running Cairne Bloodhoof. Cairne offers a strong turn 6 play in a mana slot that is usually vacant in the Rogue’s curve. As a sticky body, it synergizes well with a Bonemare follow-up since it’s so difficult to remove. Its stat distribution makes it very resilient to Priest’s removal, and it’s also very annoying for Druid to deal with. Cairne also increases the strength of Barnes, in lists that utilize the 4-mana legendary. The card that often gets cut when Cairne is included is one Cold Blood. Cold Blood is a very strong card, but you usually don’t want to draw both copies, since it often acts as a finisher or a way to leverage an established board advantage into pressure.

The two most popular Tempo Rogue variants remain the Scalebane builds and the Hydra builds. Both 5-mana cards are important in order to pressure Priests and Jade Druids into uncomfortable spots. The biggest hole in Tempo Rogue’s curve is the 4 mana slot, and the options available will usually be the weakest cards in the deck. Nevertheless, Barnes makes a lot of sense in lists that run Scalebanes on top of Cairne, as it can generate a pretty significant tempo swing.

For Hydra lists, Prince Valanar has become a popular choice, with Orange and Pavel bringing Hydra/Valanar builds to the HCT Summer Championship. Valanar’s synergy with Hydra works in two ways: It’s a taunt, so it protects the Hydra from trades much like Tar Creeper does, and it can also help recover the health lost from Hydra’s drawback. Another option in the 4 slot is Xaril, but unlike the other two 4-drops, it’s a purely negative tempo play, so we’re not big on the card.

While these two variants are the most established and popular ones within the Tempo Rogue archetype, there are more running around, some of them being quite different. The most successful example is Hypno’s unique Corpsetaker build. This list builds around the 4-drop to the extreme with Stormwatchers and Argent Commanders present. With Cold Bloods and Bonemares also included, leaving up a Windfury-powered Corpsetaker is quite dangerous. This may look like a very janky deck, but Hypno was the second player to hit legend on EU this month with the list, and he has just recently hit #1 with it as well!

While Tempo Rogue is very dominant, and seems to do no wrong when it comes to card choices, other Rogue archetypes are not seeing the light of day. Miracle Rogue has declined to the point where it’s almost non-existent, while Jade Rogue and Mill Rogue could be fun, but they’re not competitive.