Priest has emerged as the class to beat in Wild, with three successful archetypes: Reno Priest, Big Priest and Inner Fire Priest. Dragon Priest is also a likely viable deck, but has not seen very much play in the past month, but this could change if a refined list can be designed for this meta.

Reno Priest has become one of the most consistent and effective decks in the current meta, with Knights of the Frozen Throne having given it a powerful Hero card in Shadowreaper Anduin that synergizes incredibly well with Raza the Chained. Whereas previously Priest had no access to any usable burst damage, the addition of a repeated Shadowform has meant that Priest is far more able to become the aggressor in control mirrors. The package itself is so versatile that a few different builds have emerged, using cards such as Spawn of Shadows, Velen, a combination of the two, and even the often mocked Recruiter (consensus opinion appear to be that it’s a win-more card) to provide the setup for a lethal OTK, as well as the more value oriented N’Zoth package. The deck is a Tier 1 powerhouse at all levels of play, sporting one of the highest win rates in the game despite having the entire meta attempting to counter it. Several players, such as Capilano and Sipiwi94, shot to top legend using their own versions of the deck. The most recent balance changes took power away from two of its most common difficult matchups in Pirate Warrior and Murloc Paladin, while weakening Jade Druid lists which were also troublesome to Reno Priest. In the KFT Wild meta, if your deck is not designed with Reno Priest in mind, it is unlikely to succeed.

Big Priest is without a doubt one of the most divisive decks on ladder at the moment. While its win rate is not extraordinary by any means, its good matchup with Reno Priest makes it a particularly popular deck, especially at higher levels of play. The recent printing of Eternal Servitude, Shadow Essence, and Obsidian Statue have allowed for incredible tempo swings in the mid-game that very few decks can consistently stand up to. The constant pressure of well-statted valuable legendaries being resurrected on the cheap can overwhelm the mid-range and control decks in the meta, since it allows Big Priest to use their strong removal package to protect their newly-summoned minions . The deck is built almost uniformly, being made up of removal, the resurrect package, Barnes and big minions. The current list forgoes Excavated Evil to include Sneed’s Old Shredder and Shadowreaper Anduin. With Pirate Warrior seeing half the play it used to, Big Priest is a much safer choice for laddering.

The Inner Fire Combo Priest first became a monster during the Un’Goro meta and has seen relatively low play since Knights of the Frozen Throne, potentially because it doesn’t use many, if any, new cards. It remains, however, one of a few decks that can prey on Reno Priest and slower Druids with its incredible burst potential. There are quite a few ways to build Combo Priest, with lists using a combination of Light of the Naaru, Zombie Chow, Tar Creeper, Auchenai Soul Priest, and Lyra the Sunshard as interchangeable slots. Similarly to other Priest decks, it benefits from the weakening of Pirate Warrior. Control Shaman, historically its worst matchup, has also been almost nonexistent since Knights of the Frozen Throne launched, as it largely folds to Reno Priest.