Renolock has improved since the balance changes, yet continues to tread water in the middle of Tier 3. The Druid nerfs have slowed down Jade Druid enough that it’s no longer oppressing Renolock like it once did. The abundance of AOE’s at Renolock’s disposal has also allowed for a favorable matchup against the best performing meta deck, Aggro Druid. The biggest problem, however, is the abundance of Reno Priests and Big Priests in the meta. Popular Reno Priest lists contain lots of draw along with spells to control the board in order to draw Raza the Chained along with Shadowreaper Anduin in time to burst you down with either Prophet Velen or Spawn of Shadows. In order for Renolock to have a fighting chance, it’s best to establish tempo and force Priest players to react. This is, so far, best done with Demon-centric cards such as Voidcaller, Kruul, and Bloodreaver Gul’dan. By trying to force Priests to exhaust their AOE and use their cheap spells, you can potentially set up a board that they are unable to answer. Hurryupidiot was able to finish top 20 legend using that style alongside the Renolock combo (Leeroy Jenkins + Faceless Manipulator + Power Overwhelming) to have both grindy and burst finishers.

A deck that has been struggling to free itself from the clutches of irrelevancy, Zoolock, with its demon package and Bloodreaver Gul’dan, has emerged as a new challenger to top tier wild decks. The new Zoolock, which is built based off of its standard counterpart, runs the usual cheap minions, buffs, demons, pirates and Prince Keleseth. Bloodreaver Gul’dan enables a big late game swing turn that can close games out.

Zoo aims to flood the board early with possibly buffed minions from Keleseth and then curves out nicely in the mid-game. It looks to play Bloodreaver Gul’dan when the opponent has exhausted a lot of their removal. With control decks becoming greedier due to the the complacency introduced by the notable drop in the play-rate of Pirate Warrior, a Zoolock that has elements of a midrange deck, can thrive. Quite a few top legend players have used the archetype to climb to the top of the legend ladder this season.

There is also a very interesting demon based discard Zoolock that is surfacing on ladder. It causes problems for Priests with 4 attack minions such as Succubus and Wrathguard, and since this alternative approach has also been performing well on ladder, we’re featuring it.

