For the first time in Wild’s history, Rogue has found itself sporting a Tier 1 deck! We certainly didn’t expect to be saying this considering Rogue’s rather dismal statistics in previous reports. However, the recent nerfs did a lot to promote a meta suited for Rogue. Pirate Warrior’s fall from grace lifted a heavy burden from every Rogue player, as that all-in face archetype was among its worst matchups, regardless of Rogue archetype. Furthermore, the Druid nerfs not only took away a fairly difficult matchup for Rogues, but gave Priests a huge amount of ground to claim. The resulting perception of a control-dominated metagame has driven players away from tech cards such as Golakka Crawler and Oozes that hate on many Rogue lists. Instead, tech slots are being replaced with powerful (and often expensive) trumps against board wipes & burst heals, giving Rogues more room to breathe as they attempt to tempo out.

Speaking of tempo makes for a clean segway into Rogue’s dominating new archetype: Tempo Rogue. While this archetype is also known as Keleseth Rogue in Standard, that title wouldn’t quite cover the flexibility this deck has already shown in its first month in Wild. Prince Keleseth has found plenty of success in Wild Rogue decks, to be sure. However, some prefer to eschew the Prince’s power in order to play the consistent 2-ofs of Ship’s Cannon and Eviscerate. Whatever the flavor, all of these lists pack a high number of pirates and a gamut of midgame minions focused on board control or card advantage: cards such as Southsea Captain, Argent Horserider, Piloted Shredder, Loatheb, Azure Drake, and Vilespine Slayer. These clog up the board and apply pressure until the Rogue can set up lethal with oppressive closers like Bonemare or Leeroy coupled with Cold Blood or even Tinker’s Sharpsword Oil. While these lists do have the unique Rogue quality of having absurd “highroll” combinations in their opening hands, they also suffer from the usual Rogue problems. Other aggressive decks can simply out-aggro the Rogue deck by getting on the board earlier. Going wide in particular is extremely effective against Tempo Rogue, as there are no tools in the Rogue’s arsenal to take back a flooded board outside of narrow hate cards such as Dark Iron Skulker – this is indicated in the weakness to Aggro Druid and aggressive Shaman archetypes. Recruit Paladin is an exception to this, largely because the Paladin decks also has no consistent way to come back against a Tempo Rogue that takes the board, and Rogues tend to make explosive plays a turn or two before the Paladin can land its Recruit payoff cards.

Before the lean, mean tempo archetype began making waves in Wild, another classic Rogue deck took a player on EU all the way to Rank 1 Legend in September: Oil Rogue. As Priests quickly filled the Druid and Warrior-shaped holes in the adjusting metagame, Kohai generated a list seemingly custom built to beat Anduin. Like traditional Miracle lists, but with less emphasis on the Auctioneer portion of the strategy, these decks are midgame tempo decks that aim to chip away at the opponent until they can set up game-ending swings with Tinker’s Sharpsword Oil. The aforementioned lack of weapon hate was a huge part in enabling this archetype to shine, on top of the metagame slowing down in general. That said, these lists have fallen off drastically since the emergence of the faster Tempo Rogue lists. While Oil Rogue is stronger against Control in general, these few matchups come at the cost of a worse win rate against every single aggressive deck in the format. The Kohai lists simply sacrifice too much early game with so many powerful aggressive decks, especially since they’re unfavored against the faster Rogue decks, too. For those looking to beat Priests on ladder, feel free to jam Oil or Miracle; but be ready to take some licks from more aggressive decks in the process.