Razakus Priest seems to be entering its final phase of development. At this stage, it has become clear that the Circle build is the superior choice and the new standard going forward. Circle of Healing just has so many uses: It’s a board clear with Auchenai, it’s an amazing draw engine with Cleric and it’s free damage with Velen in the late game.

Most top level builds agree on 28 cards, with the final two forming an interesting debate. The first debate is Doomsayer vs. Golakka Crawler. Since most aggressive decks are declining, especially at higher levels of play, Doomsayer’s stock has been dropping. Golakka Crawler is better in the Tempo Rogue matchup quite often, and is a minion you can play on the board in slower matchups rather than being dead in your hand. Why not play both? It’s hard to find room for two cards that are weak in the mirror and the Jade Druid matchup. Doomsayer is a superior choice at lower levels of play where Shamans, Hunters and Paladin are much more common. We’ll leave Doomsayer up in the standard list and suggest Golakka as an alternative if you’re mostly facing the Big 3.

The second and most interesting development is the inclusion of Gadgetzan Auctioneer over Lyra the Sunshard. A few players are bringing an Auctioneer list to the HCT championship, and multiple players hit #1 legend with an Auctioneer build this week. Since the archetype has fully embraced its combo-centric win condition, with an OTK through Mind Blast, adding even more cycle to synergize with your cheap spells makes a lot of sense. Auctioneer is slower than Lyra, but allows you to have late game power cycle turns that brings you closer to Raza, Anduin or both, and we all know drawing these cards means winning the game.

Auctioneer definitely has a strong case, but it’s not clear at this point whether it’s better than Lyra. While Lyra doesn’t cycle your deck, it is still very strong as a support card and an alternative win condition. It can win games by itself if your combo has not been drawn, especially against faster decks when you’re trying to stabilize and end the game. It is also a card generator, providing further ammunition to your “machine gun” if Velen is not drawn, making your Radiant Elemental a much stronger enabler. Finally, it can checkmate Jade Druids, since they often have difficulties removing it if they don’t have a board themselves. So, rather than adding cycle, Lyra gives you a fallback cushion for draw inconsistency and can swing games in ways Auctioneer cannot.

Other Priest decks are also seeing developments. Big Priest, as we’ve said last week, is a strong choice since it is well positioned in a meta dominated by the Big 3. The likely best approach for the deck minimizes the amount of singleton spells in order to increase the consistency of Shadow Visions. A consistent Shadow Vision is important since against Razakus Priest and Jade Druid, you want to generate more Eternal Servitudes, and you are more likely to do that if the pool of spells in the deck is reduced.

SirVilgaudas hit #76 legend with a Dragon Priest build that runs the full Divine Spirit/Inner Fire package, looking to prey on other Priests since they struggle to deal with powerful mid-game minions as well as big threats. In a similar vein, a Silence Priest deck that runs the DS/IR combo could also be strong in the meta while also performing better against Jade Druid due to being faster.

Overall, Priest is one of the most powerful classes in the game and has likely never been stronger in any period in Hearthstone’s history. Revel in it, Priest fans, since we all know how dramatically the pendulum can swing.