At the recent EU Summer Playoffs, Mage was the 5th most popular class. Interestingly, Mage is also the 5th most popular class on ladder over all ranks. However, there is a difference in archetypal preference, with Exodia Mage being Mage’s second most popular archetype on ladder whilst being nearly non-existent in the playoffs. The explanation for this is that Exodia Mage’s decent matchups are against Jade Druid and Razakus Priest, and neither of these decks were popular targets for line ups. Jade Druid was nearly permanently banned, while Priest was hard to target with Druid being permanently banned.

The most popular archetype on ladder is Control Mage, which has seen a rise in play and performance recently. Zalae’s build includes Skulking Geist and a plethora of removal meant to run opponents out of resources, rather than just killing them with Alexstrasza into follow up burn. Though this line of play is still possible, the game plan gets heavily countered by any healing or armor gain, which is quite prevalent on ladder at the moment. So, the deck mostly outlasts opponents on the back of Frost Lich Jaina. The old Freeze Mage playstyle is barely ever seen.

Monsanto also had high legend ladder success with a Control Mage build that runs two Dirty Rats, alongside Gluttonous Ooze. With the deck running many reactive tools, it can often comfortably pull a threat out the opponent’s hand and instantly deal with it. Gluttonous Ooze is an important tech against Pirate Warrior, as this matchup can be quite difficult without the ability to deal with the Warrior’s weapon based damage, considering that Control Mage doesn’t run any taunts.

Blitzchung peaked at top 25 legend with Exodia Mage at the end of the month. As touched upon, the deck can do well with an abundance of slow Druids and Priests, though these matchups aren’t extremely favored. His list opts for one Cabalist’s Tome, a very slow card in a slow deck as it is, and also runs Simulacrum to speed up getting two Sorcerer’s Apprentices in hand. Coldlight Oracles are both efficient card draw for the deck’s style and have the potential to overdraw opponents’ hands.