The most recent set of balance changes took away two entire classes’ abilities to deal with the classic Aggro Shaman opener of Tunnel Trogg into Totem Golem. This led many to speculate that Aggro Shaman would rise up and become the premiere aggressive deck in the format; however, most overlooked the possibility of aggro decks with poor Pirate Warrior matchups flourishing as well. Tempo Rogue took the meta by surprise, popping up post nerf and boasting the second highest win rate among all decks. Both Tempo Rogue and Aggro-Token Druid rank above Aggro Shaman in the power rankings because they fare better against Reno Priest. Aggro Shaman struggles to fight through Reno Priest’s powerful defensive tools and board clears; given that Reno Priest currently makes up nearly a fifth of the R5+ ladder, Aggro Shaman cannot be the dominant aggressive deck in the format and finds itself ranked mid tier 1. As the meta shifts and becomes harsher towards Reno Priests, Aggro Shaman could definitely find itself on top, it is still an excellent choice for laddering and many players achieved high legend finishes with it in September.

Token Shaman has remained strong against a variety of decks, including some of the newer decks that have risen up in popularity post-nerf, increasing its power level to the top of tier 2. Players should definitely queue up their Token Shaman lists whenever they are seeing a bubble of Token Druids or any Rogue or Warrior archetypes. What prevents Token Shaman from seeing the light of Tier 1 is, again, Reno Priest. Anduin players are able to freely cycle with the lack of explosive pressure from the Shaman so they are sure to hit at least 1 of the many AoE options available to them.

Murloc Shaman is seeing a lot of play mostly at lower ranks (Rank 20-Rank 10). The snowball effect that all murloc decks require took a major hit with the change to Murloc Warleader’s aura. Murloc Shaman is cheap and can do well at lower skill levels but don’t expect to climb much higher with any consistency.

Control and Malygos Shaman both used to be highly competitive decks in the wild meta as little as 3 months ago. Control Shaman struggles from the lack of cycle and pressure to keep up with Reno Priest, and the nerf to hex doesn’t help either. Malygos Shaman, however, can cycle quickly enough to assemble the combo before Reno Priest assembles its own. In addition, Malygos shaman fares well against most of the aggressive decks that are present on ladder. In short, Malygos Shaman takes what made N’Zoth Control Shaman great during Journey to Un’Goro and adjusts to account for the rampant threat of Reno Priest.