Druid numbers continue to hold strong at every rank, and the class seems to be an immovable object in the current meta, dominating at all levels of play. Aggro-Token Druid remains one of the only reliable soft counters to Jade Druid, establishing a strong presence as a result.

In terms of tech choices, Jade Druid has changed little. Zalae and Machamp’s early lists cover most of the available tech slots. Note that Zalae, since then, has recommended Mark of the Lotus to be part of the build’s core. In addition, Medivh is an option to improve your matchup against control, while Doomsayers target aggressive decks. Doomsayers were very popular in the lists for the EU playoffs in order to further shore up any vulnerability to aggressive lineups meant to target Jade Druid (if that’s even possible). With the Jade Druid ban being automatic, the mirror match-up is not a factor for these lineups, making them very different from ladder lists

Aggro-Token Druid hasn’t changed much either. We highly recommend the standard list shell, as it is stronger against Jade Druid and Priest. The crab tech, or a sprinkle of it, is only strong in pocket situations where you’re encountering far more pirates and murlocs. Other options include Bonemare, to give the deck a mid-late game boost, while we’re even seeing players running a Southsea Captain for that turn 3 2/2 Patches dream.

Other Druid archetypes are still out there, albeit in smaller numbers. Muzzy piloted a Midrange Token Druid deck to a high legend finish in August. Unlike previous iterations of the archetype, this list runs Savage Roar, which gives the deck the ability to close out a game early. This build can do well against Jade Druid and the popular aggressive decks, which makes it a decent choice for ladder.

Ramp Druid has fallen off, but one interesting development is Mana’s #15 legend peak with a build that’s quite different from standard lists, cutting Barnes and running Geist in order to be able to take Jade Druid into the late game (the archetype has had a difficulty blowing out Jade Druid since KFT launched).