The meta is crowded with the top three classes: Rogue, Priest and Druid. Jade Druid continues to be a meta staple thanks to its good matchup against Razakus Priest, while its matchup against Tempo Rogue is only slightly unfavorable. However, Aggro-Token Druid and Big Druid are also looking quite strong in the current meta, even if they’re not as common as Jade Druid.

Jade Druid’s build has mostly reached a consensus. Twenty eight cards are considered core and most top players would not recommend cutting any of them. Medivh is the 29th card and is highly recommended in a meta that’s full of mirror matchups as well as Priests. The card is also underrated in the way it can swing boards and win games against midrange decks. The one flex card in our featured list is Spellbreaker. Spellbreaker can be strong against Rogues because of the threat of an early Van Cleef, and is also a good choice should Murloc Paladin become more prevalent, but the card can be replaced by pretty much any tech choice. Mind Control Tech is another popular 30th card. It is very strong in the mirror, and some players even run two copies for that reason. Power of the Wild increases the consistency of your Spreading Plague combo and the amount of pressure you can exert in the mirror and against Priests.

Aggro-Token Druid has taken advantage of a greedy meta and most of the attention being placed on Jade Druid, to launch its win rate to the top of the charts. Machamp hit #2 legend with a build that runs the nerfed Innervate/Fledgling combo, as well as Cobalt Scalebanes instead of Bittertide Hydras. Mitsuhide has been having success with a new flavor of the Pilfered Power variant. Most notably, he runs two Scalebanes and two Hydras, the 5 drop package to beat Jades and Priests, while cutting one Living Mana, which is far weaker in these matchups due to AOE and Spreading Plague. Snowflipper Penguin is also included instead of Enchanted Raven. The Penguins are strong with your buff package but they also synergize with Pilfered Power, since you can throw a Penguin into the board before you ramp to gain an extra mana. This list plays very differently than traditional lists of the archetype, since you’re not as incentivized to flood the board as quickly as possible in slower matchups. Instead, you’re looking to have enough bodies to ramp through Pilfered Power, drop your UI and your big threats and blow out your opponents through a mana and card advantage.

Meanwhile, more and more players are beginning to realize that Big Druid is no laughing matter, and this archetype is legitimately strong against the current meta. It has performed extremely well at Dreamhack Denver, and players are continuing to see success with it at top legend ranks. Save for the dream curve of Raza on 5 and Anduin on 8, the matchup with Razakus Priest usually ends in a blow-out, while Jade Druid often struggles to keep up with the vast amount of threats as well. Pinilukte’s is the most popular and successful build for the archetype and it has received quite a bit of attention and refinement. Ombre cuts the Innervates for Bright-Eyed Scouts, which can enable an incredible swing turn, while Twink cut one Innervate for Ysera, an additional threat to make life even more miserable for Priests. Both players have reached top legend ranks with the archetype, and there are numerous players who have done so with similar lists as well. Considering how little play Big Druid sees, its ladder achievements are very impressive. Don’t sleep on this deck.