With the nerf to Fiery War Axe, Warrior struggles for class identity. (♪who am I / 2/3/2 is gone!♪) While at one point, Pirate Warrior was able to police the greediness of the meta, the deck has become a ghost of its former self, unable to answer early game threats and take the board early as well as it used to. As a fairly good counter to greedy Reno Priests, losing some of the explosive power of this deck has permitted Priest to run rampant, having to face much less of an aggressive presence on ladder. The Reno Priest vs. Pirate Warrior matchup has become much weaker for the Warrior, as Pirate Warrior’s explosive starts are far less consistent, giving the Priest more time to stall and stabilize. Reno is a big factor in these matchups; where you could once kill your opponent before they were able to play Reno on turn six, now you get them in kill range around turns 7-8, which gives the opponent a greater chance to draw Reno and win the game. Many players have tried to adapt different versions of this deck to find the “optimal” new build so there are a few variations of Pirate Warrior circulating the ladder. Two of the notable builds are ones that include Keleseth, which requires cutting ship’s cannon, arguably the most powerful card in the deck. Others have experimented using cursed blade as an early weapon, which has done surprisingly well in aggro-light metas. However, its drawback against other aggressive decks, particularly Aggro Shaman, is debilitating. Others have slotted in King’s Defender, Fiery War Axe’s now strictly better cousin.

With the changes to Fiery War Axe, Control Warrior got hit pretty hard as well. It lost its best tool to contest the early game, making it so you have to rely on your AoE removal and slower weapons to take back board control from faster decks. In the slower matchups, Control Warrior also struggles, as it gets easily outvalued. With the rise of cycle-heavy Reno Priest lists, Control Warrior becomes an interesting option. With the build showcased, you are able to Out-Armor the Reno Priest and fatigue them. One of your top priorities is to make sure you fit in an armor up every turn you can, which is even more important with Tank Up. Every hero power you use is one of their hero powers nullified. However, if a Reno Priest is greedy, the matchup becomes much harder to win.